Let us write one more program using nested if. this program is to display grades for the student based
on their marks.
So let us study the problem first.
then,
I will write down the program.
See there are three marks from three different subjects marks1,  marks2  marks3.
We will take input ask three marks then find total then find average then based on the average marks
we will display grades for the students.
So if average marks are greater than or equal to 60 we say Grade A.
If they are between 35 to 16 less than 60 but greater than equal to 35 we will say b grade, if it is less
than 35.
Then we say it's a grade C like fail.
So I have just taken three grades.
If you want you can increase grades in this one.
Now how to display the grade.   just i will display the grade, total of marks and avg of marks
I will not display that, i will just display grades.
Ok so you can display is so and so,grades is so and so, everything you can display.
Let us write down this one.
So for this three conditions are there.
So for this I have to write nested if.
So here is a program already i have written partial  program, marks1, marks 2, marks3,  total are
of type int,  average in float.
Then enter marks of three subjects andm1, m2, m3 three marks are taken. adding m1,m2,m3
we get total,  total by three point zero
We get average. why point zero? because you know total is Integer, 3 is also integer so we
get integer division right.
So we get decimal part truncated, if we want decimal part then typecast or other method is 3.0.
This is float, so the result would be float if anyone number is flawed then that other will be float.
Not here let us display the grade.
So First of all, if average is greater than or equal to 60 then cout a just as grade.
And also endl, if at all you want new light you can take that.
Then I have only one statement inside this just I want to display.
grade.
Then i said I don't want to display marks of the average.
You can do that.
So for me I don't need flower bracket.
So just i will write else again if, one will condition is there, now
Remember this is with in range 35 to 60 from 35 to 60 between means
You have to take AND. so i have to write two conditions.
Average is greater than or equal to 35.
AND average that is less than 60 then for this we will display B so I can use double quotes of single
quotes anything. single quote will be a letter, double quote  will be a string then and endl then else
means if it is not greater than 60.
Not between these two then definitely it is less than 35 so when it is less than 35 just we will say  cout
grade is C
so this all we can write nested if if as if.
Then again if.
So using nested if we have written this program it is a simple program so you can write down this program
by yourself.
Not based on this.
There are some coding exercises you solve that.
So based on the range of values you have to do calculations or give output so there are coding excersices
read them properly and solve them.
So there you may have to write on few things you don't have to take input.
You dont have to declare the variables and take the input most of the things out in the parameters.
So you have to write  only this part.
So do those coding exercises.
So I have given you sufficient idea here.
You can easily solve them and there is a demo available for this program.
You can watch that one.
If you are unable to write this program and at any stage if you want my help you can just give a message
or an questions of section you can write your message whatever the problem you are facing.
You can make it as a question and post it. that's all in this video.